# Chapter 2 - Design Requirements
## Business Requirements Analysis
- Requires a few key components
  - An inventory of all assets
    - understanding tangible and intengible assets
  - A valuation of each asset
    - Business impact analysis
    - Usually the data owner assigns the value (be careful because they tend to overvalue) also they assign category/classification
  - A determination of critical paths, processes, and assets
    - Senior management is typically best at making these determinations
    - Identify single points of failure
    - Requires Quantitative/Qualitative Risk assessments
  - A clear understanding of risk appetite
    - Appetite is set by senior management
    - Risk is the likelihood an impact will be realized.
    - it is legally defensible to accept risks higher than the norm except to health and public safety
    - individuals can accept risks to health on their own behalf
    - 4 main ways to address risks
      - Avoidance
      - Acceptance
      - Transference
      - Mitigation
    - Residual risks = risks after controls
## Security Considerations for different cloud categories
- IaaS
  - The equipment is housed elsewhere so the customer looses the ability to ensure the physical security of its info assets
  - The provider may also prevent the customer from monitoring network traffic.
- PaaS
  - The customer now looses control over both hardware and OS installation/updates, however the customer can still monitor event logs and manage software updates.
-  SaaS
   -  the customer has very little control over how the data is protected and relies heavily on the provider for security.
## Design Principles for Protecting Sensitive Data
- Hardening devices
  - Cloud providers should ensure the following:
    - All guest accounts are removed.
    - All unused ports are closed.
    - No default passwords remain.
    - Strong password policies are in effect.
    - Any admin accounts are significantly secured and logged.
    - All unnecessary services are disabled.
    - Physical access is severely limited and controlled.
    - Systems are patched, maintained, and updated
  - All assets in a cloud BYOD infrax should:
    - be protected with some form of anti-malware/security software
    - have remote wipe with written permisison
    - use local encryption
    - Needs multifactor auth
    - has VPN for cloud access
    - needs Data Loss Prevention (DLP)
- Encryption
  - Should be utilized as follows
    - In the datacenter for:    
      - data at rest
      - secure sanitization (cryptoshredding)
    - In b/w cloud user and provider for
      - Creating secure sessions
      - ensuring data integrity/confidentiality in transit
    - Layered Defenses
      - Should include the following
        - Personnel controls: background checks/ monitoring
        - Technological Controls: Encryption, logging, ACLs
        - Physical Controls: locks, badge access, etc
        - Governance mechanisms, policies, audits
      - cloud customer should have:
        - Training programs
        - contractual enforcement of policy
        - use of technical controls in BYOD
        - Strong remote access control methods and multifactor
    - Useful secure architecture guidance:
      - The cloud security alliance cloud controls matrix
      - NIST Risk Management Framework (SP 800-37)
      - ISACA's COBIT
      - 


